LANTERNLIGHT - NEXT SESSION PROMPT
Written at the wrap of the 2026-09-08 evening session. Overwritten every
session; this file is tracked, and its git history is the record of what each
session handed forward. It is written by ops/handoff.py, never by an editor
tool - see the HOW TO WRITE THE NEXT HAND-OFF section at the bottom.

Resume Lanternlight from disk. Read CLAUDE.md, then this file, then ROADMAP.md
and docs/LEDGER.md newest-first. Ask nothing; start work.

READ FIRST, IN THIS ORDER
  CLAUDE.md           - unchanged this session.
  docs/LEDGER.md      - newest first. LL-0182 through LL-0195 are this session.
                        LL-0195 is the wrap's own refutation and is the one to
                        read if you read only one.
  ROADMAP.md          - EIGHT items closed this session and eight filed; the
                        only one filed and left open is OPS-57. See NEXT ITEM
                        below.

FIRST ACTION, BEFORE ANY WORK
Run `python ops/inbox_watch.py` and READ the output. A plain run REPORTS ONLY.
Acknowledge with an explicit `python ops/inbox_watch.py --acknowledge`, and only
for notes you have actually read.

  MEASURED THIS SESSION, so you do not re-derive it: the report says 97 notes
  while the directory holds 98 files, and that is CORRECT rather than a bug.
  One group holds two byte-identical notes delivered under different names, so
  97 is the count of distinct NOTES. The sum of names across groups is 98 and
  reconciles against total_notes exactly. The single non-Markdown file - a
  sibling's poller source dropped with a text extension - is keyed, grouped and
  flagged with a reason saying its content is not read for the report. It is
  already acknowledged. See LL-0186 before filing anything about that number.

SECOND ACTION
Run `python ops/stop_audit.py --show-last`. A Stop hook audits the PREVIOUS
turn's claims. It never blocks and never speaks, so a refutation sits unread
unless asked for. A FAIL line is a QUESTION about what was written, not a
verdict: it cannot tell a claim from a QUOTATION of one. At this wrap it
reported one refuted claim, and the refutation is correct about the arithmetic
and wrong about the intent - the turn QUOTED a subagent's suite line (2534
passed, 1 skipped) while the tree had already grown to 2547 collected because a
sibling slice was adding tests at the same moment. That is the quotation case
the auditor cannot distinguish, and it is worth knowing that this is what it
looks like.

CLOSED THIS SESSION, ALL PUSHED
  OPS-53  The watcher status reporter asserted a present-tense destination off
          an arming-time record. The archiving was never broken.
  OPS-39  Its last defect - the staged diff now names pathspecs literally.
  OPS-54  Parallel slices share one worktree; closed on a ban plus a detector.
  OPS-55  The gate stops consulting the filename ruff reports.
  OPS-56  The filename-to-external-tool sweep, and the two hook defects it
          found.
  OPS-58  The store-drift detector is wired into the merge gate.
  OPS-59  The watcher reports whether it has ARCHIVED, not only whether it
          polled.
  OPS-60  The stash-subject set, and the removal of an unsound count.

FILED THIS SESSION, NOT STARTED
  OPS-57  Both continuity documents will outgrow their budgets within days.
          THIS IS THE NEXT ITEM. See below.
  OPS-35, OPS-36 remain open and operator-ruled; do not act on them alone.

THE SINGLE MOST IMPORTANT MEASUREMENT THIS SESSION
The pre-commit hook - the file that gates every commit in this repository - was
running the WRONG TEST MODULE and reporting that the guard had run. Reproduced
with a real commit before it was fixed: the selector chose a bracket-named
module, the hook printed "running 1 doc-reading test module(s)", pytest ran the
glob NEIGHBOUR (a module that reads no document), the subset passed, and THE
COMMIT LANDED. `set -f` was set earlier in the hook and cleared before that
line, so `$selected` word-split AND globbed.

Two lessons that generalise past this bug:
  - A guard can run, exit 0, and have checked something else entirely. Presence,
    registration and a green exit are three facts and none of them is the fact
    that the right thing was checked.
  - The mutation that moves `set -f` to AFTER the split is killed only by the
    BEHAVIOURAL test. The text assertion survives it. A test that greps a hook
    for a string would pass against a hook carrying that string in a comment.

NEXT ITEM - OPS-57, and it has a measured basis already
Both continuity documents are about to outgrow their size budgets, and raising
the numbers is not the fix. The roadmap budget FIRED during this session and the
pre-commit hook refused a commit over it.

  The curve, in git blob bytes:
    ROADMAP.md      424,019 on 2026-09-07 -> 569,870 at this session's start
                    -> 600,555 when it fired. Budget raised ONCE to 700,000.
    docs/LEDGER.md  813,780 at the session's start -> 842,387 later, against a
                    900,000 budget that has NOT been raised.

  The raise is a DEFERRAL and is labelled one in the budget module's own
  comment block. The ledger will fire next; it was deliberately left alone
  because moving a budget before it fires is how a guard stops meaning
  anything.

  ALREADY MEASURED, so criterion 2 does not need re-deriving from scratch: 83
  top-level sections, 612,780 characters. 61 sections carry CLOSED or REFUTED
  in their heading and are 445,307 characters - 72% of the document. The other
  22 are 166,553 characters. So archiving closed items leaves a roadmap of
  roughly 167 KB without deleting a word. Three of the ten largest sections are
  still OPEN, so an archive is the large, easy, non-destructive majority of the
  problem and not all of it.

  Criterion 1 still stands: RE-DERIVE the growth rate when you do the work. Two
  sessions of data is a slope through two points.

WHAT THE ADVERSARIAL PASSES BOUGHT, because it was not a formality
Every slice that got an independent refutation pass had something real found,
and the pattern is sharper than last session's:

  - The dispatching brief for OPS-39 was WRONG about the direction of the
    defect. It claimed an under-match; git compares a pathspec literally before
    falling back to wildmatch, so the real failure is an OVER-match. The
    implementing slice refuted its own instructions and was right to.
  - Then the adversarial pass refuted the CORRECTION: a leading colon is
    pathspec MAGIC, parsed before matching runs, so it under-matches after all.
    Both docstrings were fixed before the merge rather than after.
  - OPS-58's mutation run found that all 86 existing merge-gate tests built
    their report object by hand and none had ever asserted the verdict of a
    report carrying drift.
  - OPS-59's mutation run found the THREADED production loop had no behavioural
    coverage at all - every test drives the bounded branch - so a mutant that
    reported zero copies from the real loop left the whole suite green.
  - OPS-60's enumeration found a THIRD stash commit nobody knew about.

THE WRAP'S OWN REFUTATION PASS REFUTED TWO OF THESE CLOSURES - READ LL-0195
Nine closing claims were handed to an independent pass told to break them. Six
were upheld, each with the pass naming what it TRIED rather than reporting
clean. Two were refuted and one prose defect was found, and all three were
fixed before the wrap commit:

  - OPS-53's outcome claimed the arming-time destination is still LABELLED
    wherever it survives. At the two impostor-pid branches it was rendered
    bare. The reason those sites were left un-derived survives - their
    sentences are genuinely negative and true on any day - but that was never a
    reason to leave the value unlabelled. Fixed with failing tests written
    first and watched RED at BOTH branches, because fixing one and leaving the
    other is how a guard acquires a hole shaped like coverage.
  - OPS-60 carried a CLOSED heading and NO outcome block. Its closure existed
    only in a commit message, which is exactly where a cold session does not
    look. An Outcome section was written.
  - A correction paragraph's bold heading said the wrong arithmetic was ABOVE
    while its first sentence said the paragraph BELOW.

  THE ID GUARD CANNOT SEE THE SECOND ONE, and you should know the shape of that
  check before trusting a green run: tests/test_ops_ids.py scores HEADINGS and
  LEDGER CLOSURES. An item with a CLOSED heading and one closure passes it no
  matter what the section body contains, including nothing at all.

  BOTH REFUTATIONS LANDED ON CLOSURE PROSE RATHER THAN CODE - the fifth and
  sixth times in two sessions. A closure that reports a criterion met is itself
  a claim and needs the same adversarial read as the code does.

FOUR CORRECTIONS THIS SESSION MADE TO ITS OWN EARLIER CLAIMS
Read these before trusting a number in a closure:
  1. Six unreachable commits are NOT three stashes. A stash writes two commits,
     or three when untracked files are included, and a repeat taken from an
     unchanged index adds only ONE because its index commit hashes to the object
     the first already wrote. N stashes from an unchanged index give N+1. A
     count of stash-shaped commits is not a count of stashes in either
     direction. LL-0191 corrects LL-0188 by ADDING an entry, not editing one.
  2. A messaged stash writes a subject beginning `On <branch>: <message>`, not
     `WIP on `. The prefix set could not match it, so it now gets a shape check
     resting on git refusing a branch name containing a space.
  3. `git stash drop` does NOT remove the commits. While the stash EXISTS,
     `git fsck --unreachable` reports nothing, because the ref keeps them
     reachable; after the drop they appear and stay. Only expiring the reflog
     and pruning erases them.
  4. The Stop hook does not fire a second time at the end of a session ended by
     a clear. Still unproven for a session ended by exit, and it cannot
     distinguish no fire from a fire that failed to write. LL-0182.

NO NEW GAME DATA SINCE 2026-08-30 - NINE DAYS AT THIS WRAP
Measured against the game's own tree. Every roadmap item blocked on the operator
playing - item 1's remainder, items 5 and 6 - has been blocked that whole time.
Do not schedule a capture session; fold those into whichever session next has
the game running.

  ASK, do not guess, and do not read a date out of a document:
    python -c "from ops.loop import watch; print(watch.check_watcher().reason)"

  That distinguishes RECENT, QUIET and UNKNOWN. Read it as an UPPER BOUND on
  when game data last arrived: the heartbeat lives under gitignored
  ops/runtime/, and re-arming re-copies unchanged files because the copier's
  seen-set is per instance. A QUIET answer is trustworthy; a RECENT one means a
  copy happened, which is not quite the same as new data.

STATE AT THE WRAP - re-derive rather than quoting these
  origin/main       four commits this session. Confirm with
                    `git rev-parse HEAD origin/main` and `git log --oneline -5`.
  python -m pytest  bare. The count observed at the wrap is in the wrap commit's
                    message. RE-RUN and read the last line yourself; `-q` is
                    already in pytest.ini, so a second one prints NO summary.
  python -m ruff check   clean at the wrap.
  loop              cycle 63. Advance it when you pick the next item.
  capture watcher   ARMED, identity VERIFIED, all four surfaces fresh, and its
                    ARCHIVE state reads UNKNOWN - which is correct and expected:
                    the live process was armed by a build older than OPS-59 and
                    writes no archive map. Unknown is a THIRD answer, not a
                    report that nothing was ever copied. Re-check with
                    ops.loop.watch.check_watcher() rather than believing this.

THE SHARED-WORKTREE BAN IS NOW WRITTEN DOWN - READ IT BEFORE DISPATCHING
`SHARED_WORKTREE_BAN` in ops/store_drift.py enumerates the repo-wide git
commands a slice must never run in the shared worktree, with the specific way
each one destroys a sibling slice's work. It is ADVISORY and nothing enforces
it. Put it in every slice brief.

  The merge gate now carries a THIRD channel that reports whether the object
  store moved between dispatch and merge. It never touches the verdict. With no
  dispatch-time reading it says the check DID NOT RUN and calls the answer
  unknown - it never says there was no drift. It only fires if you perform the
  dispatch ritual, and NO CODE CALLS THAT RITUAL FOR YOU.

BEFORE DISPATCHING PARALLEL WORK
Record it: state.dispatch(*items, lane=..., paths=[...]) and retire each slice
as it lands. Read state.in_flight_summary(state.load()) BEFORE dispatching
anything. Capture a per-file baseline at DISPATCH and hand it to the merge gate
as per_file_baseline - a total-only guard hides a lane that deleted tests from
its own file behind a lane that added some elsewhere. This session captured
every baseline at dispatch, and once from a detached worktree at HEAD, rather
than reconstructing one at merge time.

HOW TO WRITE THE NEXT HAND-OFF
Draft it into a scratch file, then run:
  python ops/handoff.py --from-file <draft> --target C:/Lanternlight/LL-NEXT-SESSION.txt
It runs the redactor over the STRING and refuses BEFORE anything is written, so
a refusal leaves the previous hand-off byte-unchanged and exits 1. There is no
exemption list and no override flag: if a legitimate hand-off is refused, the
HAND-OFF is what changes. --check-only reports without writing.

OPS-48 IS HELD BY OPERATOR RULING - do not answer its four questions, do not
solicit RC or RSC. OPS-52 IS CLOSED BY OPERATOR RULING - "leave the history as
is"; do not re-file it, and do not treat finding the operator's address in
git log as a new leak.

then start the loop
